Sally has support for multiple languages. It's really easy to create a new language for sally. But first let us look at the language module of Sally and how it works.

==How to Start==

You can download the 'translation starter package' here: [http://code.google.com/p/sally-project/downloads/detail?name=translation_starter_pack_1.9.zip download]

Than rename the extracted folder to your language. You should keep *sally-project.language*. at the beginning and add the two characters for your iso code.

Your folder should now look like this *sally-project.language.de* (for german language)

==Creating your own language==

Now you need to customize the files it self.

Change into your folder and you will find a hand of files files.

 * manifest.ini
 * sally-project.lang
 * ...

===manifest.ini===

In the manifest.ini (located in the language folder) you will find informations about the language:

{{{
[info]
author=Christian Knobloch
name=Deutsch
version=1.0.0.1
uid=sally-project.language.de
isocode=de
}}}


|| *Value* || *Description* ||
||author||The theme author||
||name||The language name (can be written in the destination language)||
||version||Version of the language file||
||uid||This is the uid which is the same as the folder name||
||isocode||The two characters ISOCode||

Everytime you change somthing to the language and upload it to the community you must change the version to a higher number. The uid should never change. If you need to change it, than also rename the folder name and we will than have a new language.

===The sally-project.lang file===

The sally-project.lang is the sally main translation file. It can looks like this for the german language:

{{{
[lang]
Monday=Montag
Tuesday=Dienstag
Wednesday=Mittwoch
Thursday=Donnerstag
Friday=Freitag
Saturday=Samstag
Sunday=Sonntag
[...]
}}}


<font color="#22AA22">
==Info==
 You must alway keep the top line of the file like this: [lang]
</font>


As you can see on the left side of the equal sign you have the english wording. On the right side is the translation into your language. If you have a longer text then it is not allowed to have line breaks.

There are some special characters you must beware of. This special characters must be used in your translations:

|| *Special Character* || *Meaning* ||
||\n||Creates a line break. eg:

Test it\nNew Line=Testen\nNeue Zeile ||
||%s||Is replaced with a string at runtime

We have found %s images=Wir haben %s Bilder gefunden
||

This behaviour is the same for the sally .lang file and all plugin .lang files.

===What about all the other files?===

All other files are for a specific application. For example: de.der-knob.sally.app.eradio.lang is the translation for the eRadio application. It's working like the sally-project.lang file.

When you create a translation, please translate at least these files:

 * de.der-knob.sally.app.community.lang
 * de.der-knob.sally.app.imagebrowser.lang
 * de.der-knob.sally.app.mediaplayer.lang
 * de.der-knob.sally.app.paintboard.lang

These are the main applications which are delivered with Sally.


<font color="#AA2222">
==Warning==
 Delete all not translated files!
</font>


==Create a Installation Package==

When you are done, zip the folder. Than change the file extension from *.zip* to *.sallylanguage*.

Double click your new language package with the *.sallylanguage extension*. This should start the installer. Install the package and verify it in sally.

When you are done, you can upload the file into the [http://www.sally-project.org Sally Community].

==FAQ==

We know, that this tutorial is not complete. If you have any question contact us [mailto:webmaster@sally-project.org webmaster@sally-project.org]